week9 Presentation notes 

FogBank: a single cell segmentation across multiple cell lines and image modalities = Kyle

cell line - cell culture grwon from a single celle
counting and cutting the cells 

Watershed segmentation
grayscale image or gradient image made into heightmap 
pixel gradients to divide the image
seed points defined as start of a region
seed points can be detected or chosen by user
over segmentation usually happens

Watershed flooding
water poured into regions and flow along gradient vectors
when the water touches each other = boundary, like a slope of 0 
create boundaries when flooded regions touch 
combine regions as needed to combat over-segmentation 

Problems of watershed segmentation
over-segmentation hard to correct
biological noise
region merging inaccurate and insufficient 

Fogbank alogirthm
address isues with wathershed methods
geodesic distance ( graph distance) used differently 
new automatic seed detection methods 

Fogbank overview
1. seperate foreground from background, defining the region of interest 
2. detect potential cell boundaries in the image that will be used as barriers in computing the 

seperating foreground and background 
foregound : stuff we want
background: junks 
Emperial gradient threshold technique 
	- gradient image made from original
	- seperate those based on gradient magnitude overlap

Geodesic distance
takes boundaries into account when computing distance 

Cell boundary detection
two ways this is performed
1. just say there aren't boundaries2
2. boundaries defined based on pixel intensity percentile (rightness of the boundary)

Finding seed points
Histogram quantization with seed size constraint 
nuclei detection 

Histogram quantization with seed size constraintmost methods use bins of every intensity value 0-255
fogbank uses bins with intensity percentiles
detect seed points 
has size boundaries 

Nuclei detection for seed points
Histogram bin still used 
only one user-defined percentile used 
find nucleoli
additional circularity calculation and threshold
nucleoli distance compared with diameter threshold to find nucleus
C=4π×area/(perimeter)^2

Qualifying success 
Tested against manually segmented data sets
1. cell count accuracy
2. adjusted rand index 
evaluate 1 = perfect match

Performance evaluation 
compared against six other methods on six other datasets
boundaries similar to manually drawn ones 


Evaluation of UAS for photographic
re-identification of bowhead whales Janey

eastern canada - west greenland 
bering-chukchi-beaufort
interest declining sea ice and projected increase of shipping and other industrial activity in the arctic
past, capture-recapture studies and manned aircraft photos 

manage need of info
size - growth rate
population structure
habitat preferences
survival
calving intervals
population grwoth rates 

Bowhead whales aka balaena mysticetus 北極クジラ
don't migrate to low altitude waters to feed or reproduce 

3objectives for the study
1. develop a protocol to collect magery with an UAS being operated under 
line of-sight sfoc (1.5km from boat)
2. collect high-resolution photographs of bowhead whales to assess whether UAScould be used for photo-identification 

benefits
quieter and smaller than manned aircraft = costless
reduce safety risks
less blurry 
lower environmental footprint 
assume less of a disturbance on the marine wild-life 

twin otter - the name of the plane

Igloolik, Nunavut, Canada 
9mth of 0 C 

The brican TD100E UAV
batter powered 
Nikon D800 Digital single lense
two cameras 

nikon D800 

GCS - ground control system 
the imagery will be stored on the drone
but GCS could see all actions 

patenuade et al 
approximately 3.7 (8 of 218) responded to the drone 
but the problem is they actually don't care at all + drone moves fast 

objective 1 
1. restricting flights to the line-of-sight imposed additional burdens 
that increased deployment time and personal

objective 2 
1. get image of whales with much better quality
2. could relate with previous studies 


3D multifunctional integumentary membranes for spatiotemporal cardiac measurements
 and stimulation across the entire epicardium Michael

basically means stimulate the heart entire process of outside muscle 
put bunch of sencors on heart and makesure it won't stop at random point 

They 

Factors Predicting Glycemic Control in Middle-Aged and Older Adults With Type 2 Diabetes - Kevin

Glycated Hemoglovin - should be able to predict sugar through last 90days

Nationally respresentative DATA
1998 and 2000 Health and Retirement Study
HRS 2003 Diabetese study 

Test group of 51-64 years, and 65 years and older
Demographic characteristics (age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, and marital status) 

Data analysis 
SAS version 9.1 - statistical analysis system
t-test 
Analysis of variance ANOVA
simple regression
	linear regression model with a single explanatory variable. The adjective simple refers to the 
	fact that the outcome variable is related to 

After analyzing all the data, benefits are,,,
demographics 2nd highest, 
treatment modality is was highest 
Lifestyle had lower result 
Clinical conditions perfrom the best for the middle-aged 
has tendencies that economic standards define how well you managed your glycemic control

found guidelines 
recommended a lifestyle regimen across the entire span 
highlight the need to help type 2 diabetics who are 
	1. middle aged and sociodemographically and clinically disadvantaged 
	2. 
lifestyle is not physical activity, but what kind of people you hang-out and eat 

Biometrics Authentication Using Raspberry Pi　by Amjad
fingerprint authentication, PHP, postgresql, python, raspberry pi, Ovencv, U.are.U 4500 

Biometrics 
physiological chracteristics - dna sequences, fingerprint, face recognition
behavioral characteristics - gait analytics, voice
the biometrics market was expected to be worth 13.8 billion in 2015 = for security devices fee 

Earlier work 
1. suggested increasing the accuracy of an existing fingerprint recognition by new tech 
2. recognition by using standardized fingerprint model 
3. wireless fingerpritn based security system using Zigbee Technology 

system outline

software architecture 
php - postgresql - opencv python script
1. initialize ip address in putty
2. run the lightvncserver
3. connect eh fingerprint module
4. open the fprint_demo gui - access database
5. read and save the image template 
6. convert the image template in to binary template 
7. save the obtained template in the postgresql database 
8. now comparison between various templates can be carried out using the python script 
9. 
implementation procesure
frpint demo application 

Real-timefMRIbrain computer interfaces:Self-regulationofsinglebrainregionstonetworks - Kent 

change in blooc-oxygen level signals 
closed loop system of 5 steps 
s
echo planar imagining
digital data recognition of radiowave 
bci - sensor to find the activity level of center of brain 
takes the signale from the brain, and receive to 3d-image of brain 

1. initial subject
2. signal acquisition
3. preprocessing 
4. signal analysis = data processing + 3d motion correction + visualization 
5. feed back 

first attempt to explore brain area related to emotion 
1. shown faces with emotion
2. participants perfomed a mood self-induction paradigm 

others areas studied
somatomotor - skeleton near part of brain 
auditory 
language 
deep brain 

studies 
1. nicotine addicts  
2. schizophrenia 
3. depression 

brain network connectivity
different then conventional neuroimaging
uses spatially distributed regions of the brain 
possible because of pattern recognition 

extremely time consuming 
and data size is not large at all 

